(Intro music)
- That's crazy that the
most interesting things
about this new laptop are
the reasons not to buy it.
So the MacBook Air just got refreshed.
It's a pretty simple update,
maybe a boring one actually.
There's really only two things new.
It has this new
anodization on the outside,
apparently a slightly more
fingerprint resistant look to it.
And it has the new M3 chip inside.
So the coating, I don't know,
it barely makes a difference
if I'm being honest.
It still gets fingerprints
if you handle it regularly
without a skin or a case.
I would much rather depend
on something like a skin
from channel sponsor Dbrand.
It lets you break out
from one of the three
really simple colors and
it's gonna hide fingerprints
a million times better than
any metal treatment ever could.
Plus these are real leather,
so they have a nice plush texture
and it'll patina over time.
So I'll leave a link to this one below.
But the other new thing
is this M3 chip inside.
So we've seen this M3 chip
before, this is what Apple does.
They put the same chip everywhere.
This came out in October of last year
and they immediately
put it in the new iMac.
And then we also got a new
MacBook Pro that launched
with this and the M3 PRO and the M3 Max.
So okay, new M3 Apple silicon,
third generation, great.
So now we're finally getting
this new base M3 chip
in the new MacBook Air, side
note, why does it take so long?
I don't know, it feels like
Apple kind of staggers it
probably on purpose, but like
it's the same chip everywhere.
They've done the iMac,
they've done the MacBook Pro
and MacBook Air, but the
Mac Mini just staying
on M2, kind of weird.
Also the new iPad Pro still on M2.
When's that gonna get it?
Anyway, you already know
that the MacBook Air
is the most popular Mac for a reason.
This is the base like entry level Mac
that most people are seeing
as the way to get into the Mac world.
And so the base MacBook
Air has typically been one
of the easiest to recommend
laptops in the world by design.
But this one, interestingly,
for two reasons, isn't.
Now, this has nothing to
do with performance of M3
or anything weird like that.
Like it's the performance
you were expecting.
If you look at benchmarks,
it's right around that 10
to 20% improvement over M2
depending on what you're doing.
Definitely leans heavier
on graphics improvements this generation.
And there's the rate tracing now finally.
So any applications
or rendering that are
taken advantage of that,
that's gonna be a noticeable
improvement for M3.
And it's clearly a more capable chip.
And also MacBook Airs,
especially the 15 inch,
just constantly get great
battery life across the board.
You also get now dual
external display support
with the lid closed,
but one external display
with the laptop open.
And it also appears
that the base storage
on M3 is much improved.
So this was one of those concerns from,
if you look back at M2,
you know obviously Apple seeds reviewers
with higher end MacBooks, so
most of us aren't getting that.
But if you look back at M2
the base 256 gig model used
a single SSD module instead
of two SSDs.
Long story short, that
storage module was way slower
than M1, like 50% slower on paper.
Would you have noticed if nobody told you
and had never benchmarked it?
Maybe, possibly not,
but obviously it's a bummer
having way slower storage
on a new M2 and that extra
time transferring large files,
that adds up over time.
So I'm happy to report that
I've seen really good benchmarks
on the base storage of the M3 Air.
It appears that they fixed it, awesome.
So what's the deal with this M3 Air then?
Why am I saying it's not necessarily
the best recommendation?
Well, historically, MacBook
Air has been super easy
to recommend, but with this M3,
they also lowered the price
of M2 by a hundred bucks
and discontinued the M1.
So now the lineup is M3
MacBook Air starts at 1099,
then M2 MacBook Air starts at 999
and then M1, it's kind of gone from Apple,
but you can still find stock
that's left at like Walmart or Best Buy.
Now the thing about the
MacBook Air being easy
to recommend is we're
talking about regular people,
which it's very light, regular,
normal usage like web browsing,
listening to music, a bunch
of tabs open, work stuff,
occasionally compiling
or rendering some small
things, photo editing
and chopping a video or two sometimes,
but really very light.
So these people, like type of people
who would buy a laptop at
Walmart would be totally fine
with the cheaper identical
looking MacBook Air
with the slightly slower
M2 chip and slower storage.
I think they would be totally fine.
But the other thing which
I need to talk about
is this whole base spec thing.
This is not exactly new to the
industry, but the base price
and the base spec has almost
become like this weird fallacy.
Like I think it was Linus who did a video
about how starting at is
like the biggest lie in tech.
And he's right, it's not just tech,
like the car industry
does it all the time too.
Starting at, you know,
this super low price,
but nobody actually gets it at that price.
You're not gonna get a
totally bare base model car.
The base price is really
more to give you an idea
of how much you're about to spend
when you actually option
it up the way you want to.
And the issue with these
is Apple's markup prices
for above base spec is crazy high.
Like Apple charges way too much
for the most basic upgrades.
Obviously Apple Silicon
computers are all a system
on a chip, so they cannot be upgraded ever
after you buy them, right?
So once you buy it, you know, you're kind
of incentivized if you're
gonna keep it for a long time
to splurge a little bit
and give yourself some extra
headroom and future proof it
and bump up that spec.
But Apple charges so much
for bumping up that spec
that the base price feels
like kind of even more
of a lie than usual.
So the MacBook Air starts in 2024,
again, at eight gigs of shared
RAM and 256 gigs of storage.
Now, ignoring the fact that
the phone I'm using also has
more than eight gigs of RAM
and 256 gigs of storage, if
you want to upgrade to 16 gigs
of memory, the first available
RAM upgrade, that's $200.
And if you wanna bump up
to just the half a terabyte
of storage, that's
another 200 more dollars.
Compared to to how much
that actually costs Apple,
especially at the scale
that they're operating,
that is just crazy,
brutal, ridiculous pricing.
So even if you do just that,
suddenly the MacBook Air M3 is $1,500.
So either you're cool with
knowing you're actually buying
a 1500 plus dollars MacBook
Air or the real question is,
is the base spec in 2024 actually usable?
And my take is actually
sometimes yes, sometimes yes.
So again, if you're the
people I talked about earlier,
you're you're buying a laptop
from the showcase at Walmart
or Best Buy, you just need
it to do the basic stuff
I mentioned earlier,
you actually can do that with eight gigs
of shared memory, no problem.
This might seem like a hot take,
but I've spent a lot of
time doing this stuff.
You rarely actually get
close to hitting the max
and hitting memory swap.
And even when you do,
it's very much still fine.
It's when you get into the
heavier stuff like media encoding
or exporting or gaming that
it's a whole nother story.
So if you're watching this video,
you already know which
group of people you're in.
So for that massive group of
people who are doing a lot of
that normal, baseline computing stuff,
don't buy the new M3 MacBook Air.
You can very easily get an M2 MacBook Air
and save your money.
Matter of fact, if you don't
need the brighter display,
the MagSafe, the external display support,
which you probably don't at this rate,
it's also a great idea
to look into Best Buy
or Walmart's like six,
$700 M1 MacBook Airs
that they're selling right now.
I think Walmart first announced
they would have it for 699
and then a few days
later Best Buy announced
that they'd sell it for
649, which is pretty sick.
So clearly M3 is a much
more capable overall chip
and brings the floor of a laptop up.
But the way I see it, what
Apple silicon has done
to Apple's lineup is it's
brought down the minimum level
of machine that you can get
away with doing your workflow.
Does that make sense?
So like me, I edit a lot of videos
and so I need a powerful
machine for Final Cut Pro
and that sort of stuff, right?
So for the longest time I could
only use an Apple Desktop,
the highest end iMac Pro, the
Mac Pro, and I still will,
but I am now able to use Mac
Studio and I can actually edit.
I've had an M1 Max MacBook Pro for a while
and I've been editing
on the go with a laptop,
which is a huge like enabler for me.
And the same sort of thing
applies if you're doing like
gaming stuff or if you have
a whole bunch of coding
and heavy, maybe even just encoding photos
or whatever you're doing at that level,
you'd typically rely on a MacBook Pro.
But with these new chips
and with Apple silicon,
you can do that on a high-end
MacBook Air, which is again,
a pretty sweet enabler.
So that's what the new M3 MacBook Air is.
If you do that sort of stuff,
it's an amazing computer.
It should be on your shortlist.
Great all around, easy to recommend.
But again, if you're doing
the lightweight, normal stuff
and you need a MacBook
Air, don't get this one.
Get the cheaper one.
Okay, that's it.
Thanks for watching.
Catch you guys the next one, peace.
♪ It's the money, it's it's
the money, it's the money♪